cicd/modules/README.md, before:

<!--
Copyright (c) RapidField LLC. Licensed under the MIT License. See LICENSE.txt in the project root for license information.
-->

[![Solid Instruments](../../SolidInstruments.Logo.Color.Transparent.500w.png)](../../README.md)
- - -

# /cicd/modules

This document describes the purpose of the [`cicd/modules`]() directory.

## Purpose

This path contains [**PowerShell**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PowerShell) module files that expose functions which define the core CI/CD pipeline.

- [`AutomationTools.psm1`](AutomationTools.psm1) defines CI/CD automation tooling for the project.
- [`BuildAndDeployment.psm1`](BuildAndDeployment.psm1) exposes the build and deployment functions that are used by the CI/CD pipeline.

## License

[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/rapidfield/solid-instruments?style=flat&color=lightseagreen&label=license&logo=open-access&logoColor=lightgrey)](https://github.com/RapidField/solid-instruments/blob/master/LICENSE.txt)

**Solid Instruments** is [MIT-licensed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIT_License). Review the [license terms](../../LICENSE.txt) for more information.

<br />

- - -

<br />

[![RapidField](../../RapidField.Logo.Color.Black.Transparent.200w.png)](https://www.rapidfield.com)

###### Copyright (c) RapidField LLC. All rights reserved. "RapidField" and "Solid Instruments" are trademarks of RapidField LLC.

Commit message:

Numerous improvements to CI/CD pipeline.

cicd/modules/README.md, after:

<!--
Copyright (c) RapidField LLC. Licensed under the MIT License. See LICENSE.txt in the project root for license information.
-->

[![Solid Instruments](../../SolidInstruments.Logo.Color.Transparent.500w.png)](../../README.md)
- - -

# /cicd/modules

This document describes the purpose of the [`cicd/modules`]() directory.

## Purpose

This path contains [**PowerShell**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PowerShell) module files that expose functions which define the core CI/CD pipeline.

- [`AutomationTools.psm1`](AutomationTools.psm1) defines CI/CD automation tooling for the project.
- [`BuildAndDeployment.psm1`](BuildAndDeployment.psm1) exposes the build and deployment functions that are used by the CI/CD pipeline.
- [`Core.psm1`](Core.psm1) exposes shared utility functions for the CI/CD pipeline.

## License

[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/rapidfield/solid-instruments?style=flat&color=lightseagreen&label=license&logo=open-access&logoColor=lightgrey)](https://github.com/RapidField/solid-instruments/blob/master/LICENSE.txt)

**Solid Instruments** is [MIT-licensed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIT_License). Review the [license terms](../../LICENSE.txt) for more information.

<br />

- - -

<br />

[![RapidField](../../RapidField.Logo.Color.Black.Transparent.200w.png)](https://www.rapidfield.com)

###### Copyright (c) RapidField LLC. All rights reserved. "RapidField" and "Solid Instruments" are trademarks of RapidField LLC.
